ABOUT OUR PROJECT

Recent years have seen hearing loss as an increasing concern among people of all ages. By 2050, approximately 2.5 billion people worldwide are projected to have some degree of hearing loss, and at least 700 million will require hearing rehabilitation. In Vietnam, there are 2.5 million deaf people, accounting for one-third of the disabled people in the country. WHO has estimated that unaddressed hearing loss costs the global economy US$ 980 billion annually for health sector, educational, and societal costs. 

As the sense of hearing is a key aspect of functioning, its loss negatively impacts all stages of life, especially in terms of communication, education, and mental health. In developing countries, children with hearing loss often do not receive proper schooling, which hinders language development and even leads to illiteracy. Communication barriers make it hard for them to express ideas and emotions, deteriorating their overall well-being. Moreover, despite the extension of the deaf community, people who can understand sign language are rare. It is reported that 72% of parents whose children are deaf do not know sign language - a persuasive statistic on the low awareness of this specified language. 

Regarding hearing loss as a worldwide concern, there are popular solutions and tools to improve the quality of life of the deaf. The global accessibility of hearing aids is highlighted, with estimates showing that only 17% of users benefit from hearing aids and they are not very comfortable to wear for long periods. Captioning services have yet to prove their effectiveness due to the dependence on the noisiness of the surroundings, and speech-to-text services like Live Transcribe are not useful for illiterate deaf individuals as they only translate speech-to-text. All in all, the existing solutions still have many limitations and there are no products capable of translating speech into visualization of sign language. 

LittleHands, a virtual translator, bridges the gap between deaf and hearing communities by enabling bidirectional translation between Vietnamese and Sign Language. This empowers deaf people to effortlessly engage in conversations. LittleHands also translates spoken audio into videos, fostering greater inclusion by widening media accessibility.

The workflow of LittleHands:

From Natural Language to Sign Language:
The LittleHands App operates by capturing the voice of a hearing individual and transmitting it to the server for processing. Upon reception, the server employs a series of steps: first, utilizing the Azure Speech-to-text API to convert the audio into text; second, employing an NLP model, such as BERT and its variants, to analyze the grammatical structure of the text; third, leveraging ChatGPT with a custom prompt to translate the text into sign language grammar; fourth, utilizing the Unity engine to generate corresponding sign language animations; and finally, sending the generated animation back to the app. The LittleHands App then displays the animated sign language, allowing communication with individuals proficient in sign language. 

From Sign Language to Natural Language:
The LittleHands App functions by capturing the gestures of a deaf individual and transmitting the video to a server. Upon receipt, the server undergoes a series of steps: firstly, it utilizes a Sign Language Recognition model (such as VTN hand crop) to convert the video into the text; secondly, it employs an NLP model like BERT to analyze the grammatical structure of the text; thirdly, it utilizes ChatGPT with a custom prompt to convert the text into natural language grammar; fourthly, it uses the Azure Text-to-speech API to convert the text into voice; and finally, it sends the generated audio back to the LittleHands app. The app then plays the voice, completing the communication process.

Following a successful pilot program, in the first phase of the development of LittleHands, we aim to strategically expand access to encompass the broader deaf community in Vietnam by deploying LittleHands at a private school for deaf children in Hanoi. Later, in the second phase, we will collect similar data in other languages to develop a global version concluding various languages, targeting the global deaf community. Transcending the boundaries of simple translation, functions as an empowering tool that simplifies the learning process, promotes social inclusion, and encourages greater social support. The data accumulated through this application will be a valuable resource that propels innovation in future applications. In essence, LittleHands embodies our commitment to leveraging the power of technology to cultivate a more inclusive world. This application strives to dismantle communication barriers and establish new avenues for meaningful connections within the deaf population.

ABOUT OUR TEAM
With a dedication to enhancing society, especially for individuals with hearing disabilities, we aim to foster innovation. Initially focusing on the essence of creativity, we deliberated extensively and arrived at the acronym K.C.I.F — Knowledge, Creativity, Imagination, Future — to define our team values.
With this vision, we want to distinguish ourselves as pioneers of creativity in our domain. Our primary goal is cultivating our imaginative faculties, propelling us toward the future. By amalgamating our expertise in AI with our creative insight, we aspire to make meaningful contributions to society and inspire youth engagement with AI.
Our team members include students majoring in Literature, Computer Science, Mathematics, and Physics in 10th grade at Hanoi-Amsterdam High School.
Our team endeavors to achieve the following objectives:
Enhance the quality of life for the deaf community by developing an effective communication system to overcome language barriers.
Raise awareness about the challenges faced by the deaf, fostering community support.
Improve deaf education.
